this is Mark Bell from super training
dot TV super training gym the strongest
gym in the West I got a question from
Luke who is wondering why some people
out there beef about the powerlifting
squats these are people that do the
Olympic style squats and he says why
would Olie lifters even bother
commenting on powerlifting squats when
they're not even asked to squat in their
competition I think all it is the
misunderstanding of the lifts power
lifters are guilty of it too in making
fun of Olympic lifters powerlifters make
fun of bodybuilders bodybuilders make
fun of power lifters and really what it
is the misunderstanding the truth of it
all is that we are all in the same big
giant gay boat big giant gay boat rides
like you've seen on South Park we're all
the same boat we're all trying to get
better power lifters are trying to get
stronger at their three lifts weight
lifters are trying to get stronger there
are two lifts bodybuilders are trying to
make themselves better by being in
better shape all the time being leaner
and being more muscular and so on so
what I would like to see people do is
rather than you know rather than make
fun of an Olympic squat or an overhead
squat or this or that I mean I'm guilty
of it I make fun of these things all the
time the real thing is to embrace it and
try to have a better understanding of it
when somebody tells me in about a
overhead squat as I see a lot of times
that the crossfit certification power to
thing courses that Jesse berdych and
myself do we hear people ask questions
about the overhead squat and I tell
people flat out it's impossible and what
I mean by that is like a you know I'm
not gifted enough to do it it's too damn
hard for me so I have a respect for it
while I do think it's a ridiculous
exercise I do have a respect and
understanding for it it takes some some
good mobility it takes some solid
strength and in some ways it is it is a
way to test people out in terms of their
strength and mobility kind of all at the
same time in a powerlifting squat you
know we're going with a much wider
stance the range of motion is
shortened and in a olympic-style squat
oftentimes those guys are lifting raw
and they're kind of rebounding off their
own body taking advantage of what they
can take advantage of while the power
lifter is taking advantage of their
power to thing here and going out with a
wider stance so really all it is the
misunderstanding and you know can't we
all just get along as the Rodney King
once said i would like to see people
have a better understanding for what
each other is trying to do we're all
iron brothers in this battle here and we
need to all stick together because there
ain't really that many of us not that
many of us squat and deadlift and
invention and doing cleans and snatches
and so we all need to just stick
together and band together if you if you
want to make fun of an olympic-style
squat make sure that you've done one
before and see how damn hard they are if
you want to make fun of a power two
things squat then do one and see how
hard it is neither sport is either easy
they're both hard they both have their
own demands and again I just think
people just need to have a better
understanding of them the only way to
understand them is to actually do them
so if you want to talk about an
Olympic olympic-style this Olympic style
that then I would assume that you would
have a background in it and that you've
done it before and that's the only way
you can really speak upon it same thing
with powerlifting you know if Olympic
guys give a about power of things
to say hey come on man just try it I'll
try your support you try mine and see
how that ends up you know both of you
are going to suffer and it's going to
suck for both of you because I you know
doing both styles is tough and that is
it from super training TV later